README.md, before:

[![PyPI version fury.io](https://badge.fury.io/py/icdcodex.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/icdcodex/) [![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/icd-codex/badge/?version=latest)](http://icd-codex.readthedocs.io/?badge=latest) [![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black) [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/icd-codex/icd-codex.svg)](https://github.com/icd-codex/icd-codex/blob/master/LICENSE)

`icdcodex` was the first prize winner in the Data Driven Healthcare Track of John Hopkins' [MedHacks 2020](https://medhacks2020.devpost.com).

```{admonition} Experimental 
This is experimental software and a stable API is not expected until version 1.0
```

## Motivation
Thousands of Americans are misquoted on their health insurance yearly due to ICD miscodes. While ICD coding is manual and laborous, it is difficult to automate by machine learning because the output space is enormous. For example, ICD-10 CM (clinical modification) has over 70,000 codes and growing. There are [many strategies](https://maxhalford.github.io/blog/target-encoding/) for label embedding that address these issues.

`icdcodex` has two features that make ICD classification more amenable to modeling:
- Access to a `networkx` tree representation of the ICD9 and ICD10 hierarchies
- Vector embeddings of ICD codes (including pre-computed embeddings and an interface to create new embeddings)

## Example Code
```python
from icdcodex import icd2vec, hierarchy
embedder = icd2vec.Icd2Vec(num_embedding_dimensions=64)
embedder.fit(*hierarchy.icd9())
X = get_patient_covariates()
y = embedder.to_vec(["001.0"])  # Cholera due to vibrio cholerae
```
In this case, `y` is a 64-dimensional vector close to other `Infectious And Parasitic Diseases` codes. 

## Related Work
- node2vec [Paper](https://cs.stanford.edu/people/jure/pubs/node2vec-kdd16.pdf), [Website](https://snap.stanford.edu/node2vec/), [Code](https://github.com/snap-stanford/snap/tree/master/examples/node2vec), [Alternate Code](https://github.com/eliorc/node2vec)
- Learning Low-Dimensional Representations of Medical Concepts: [Paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5001761/), [Code](https://github.com/clinicalml/embeddings)
- Projection Word Embedding Model With Hybrid Sampling Training for Classifying ICD-10-CM Codes [Paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31339103/)

## The Hackathon Team
- Jeremy Fisher (Maintainer)
- Alhusain Abdalla
- Natasha Nehra
- Tejas Patel
- Hamrish Saravanakumar

## Documentation

See the full documentation: [https://icd-codex.readthedocs.io/en/latest/](https://icd-codex.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

## Contributions

[Contributions are always welcome!](https://icd-codex.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contributing.html)

Commit message:

📝 add "What is it?" section

README.md, after:

[![PyPI version fury.io](https://badge.fury.io/py/icdcodex.svg)](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/icdcodex/) [![Documentation Status](https://readthedocs.org/projects/icd-codex/badge/?version=latest)](http://icd-codex.readthedocs.io/?badge=latest) [![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black) [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/icd-codex/icd-codex.svg)](https://github.com/icd-codex/icd-codex/blob/master/LICENSE)

```{admonition} Experimental 
This is experimental software and a stable API is not expected until version 1.0
```
## What is it?
A python library for providing vector representation of ICD-9 and ICD-10 codes. Because it takes advantage of the hierarchical nature of ICD codes, it also provides these hierarchies in a [`networkx`](https://networkx.github.io) format.

## Motivation
`icdcodex` was the first prize winner in the Data Driven Healthcare Track of John Hopkins' [MedHacks 2020](https://medhacks2020.devpost.com). It was hacked together to address the problem of [ICD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ICD-10) miscodes, which is a major issue for health insurance in the United States. Indeed, while ICD coding is tedious and labour intensive, it is not obvious how to automate because the output space is enourmous. For example, ICD-10 CM (clinical modification) has over 70,000 codes and growing.

There are [many strategies](https://maxhalford.github.io/blog/target-encoding/) for target encoding that address these issues. `icdcodex` has two features that make ICD classification more amenable to modeling:
- Access to a `networkx` tree representation of the ICD-9 and ICD-10 hierarchies
- Vector embeddings of ICD codes using the [node2vec](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.00653) algorithm (including pre-computed embeddings and an interface to create new embeddings)

## Example Code
```python
from icdcodex import icd2vec, hierarchy
embedder = icd2vec.Icd2Vec(num_embedding_dimensions=64)
embedder.fit(*hierarchy.icd9())
X = get_patient_covariates()
y = embedder.to_vec(["001.0"])  # Cholera due to vibrio cholerae
```
In this case, `y` is a 64-dimensional vector close to other `Infectious And Parasitic Diseases` codes. 

## Related Work
- node2vec [Paper](https://cs.stanford.edu/people/jure/pubs/node2vec-kdd16.pdf), [Website](https://snap.stanford.edu/node2vec/), [Code](https://github.com/snap-stanford/snap/tree/master/examples/node2vec), [Alternate Code](https://github.com/eliorc/node2vec)
- Learning Low-Dimensional Representations of Medical Concepts: [Paper](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5001761/), [Code](https://github.com/clinicalml/embeddings)

## The Hackathon Team
- Jeremy Fisher (Maintainer)
- Alhusain Abdalla
- Natasha Nehra
- Tejas Patel
- Hamrish Saravanakumar

## Documentation

See the full documentation: [https://icd-codex.readthedocs.io/en/latest/](https://icd-codex.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)

## Contributions

[Contributions are always welcome!](https://icd-codex.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contributing.html)
